<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>X</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-10" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 class="chapter" id="chapter-9">CHAP. <span epub:type="z3998:roman">VI</span>.<br/>
			of<br/>
			Captain <i>Charles Vane</i>,<br/>
			And his Crew.</h2>
			<p>C<i>Harles Vane</i> was one of those who stole away the Silver which the <i>Spaniards</i> had fished up from the Wrecks of the Galleons, in the Gulph of <i>Florida</i>, and was at <i>Providence</i> (as has been before hinted) when Governor <i>Rogers</i> arrived there with two Men of War.</p>
			<p>All the Pyrates who were found at this Colony of Rogues, submitted, and received Certificates of their Pardon, except Captain <i>Vane</i> and his Crew; who, as soon as they saw the Men of War enter, slipp’d their Cable, set Fire to a Prize they had in the Harbour, and sailed out with their pyratical Colours flying, firing at one of the Men of War as they went off.</p>
			<p>Two Days after they went out, they met with a Sloop belonging to <i>Barbadoes</i>, which they made Prize of, and kept the Vessel for their own Use, putting aboard five and twenty Hands, with one <i>Yeats</i> to command them. A Day or two afterwards they fell in with a small interloping Trader, with a Quantity of <i>Spanish</i> Pieces of Eight aboard, bound into <i>Providence</i>, called the <i>John</i> and <i>Elizabeth</i>, which they also took along with them. With these two Sloops <i>Vane</i> went to a small Island and cleaned; where they shared their Booty, and spent some Time in a riotous Manner of Living, as is the Custom of Pyrates.</p>
			<p>The latter End of <i>May</i> 1718, they sail’d, and being in want of Provisions, they beat up for the Windward Islands, and met with a <i>Spanish</i> Sloop bound from <i>Porto Rico</i> to the <i>Havana</i>, which they burnt, and stowed the <i>Spaniards</i> in a Boat, and left them to get to the Island, by the Light of their Vessel. But steering between <abbr>St.</abbr> <i>Christopher</i>’s and <i>Anguilla</i>, they fell in with a Brigantine and a Sloop, with the Cargo they wanted; from whom they got Provisions for Sea-Store.</p>
			<p>Sometime after this, standing to the Northward, in the Track the <i>Old-England</i> Ships take, in their Voyage to the <i>American</i> Colonies, they took several Ships and Vessels, which they plundered of what they thought fit, and let them pass.</p>
			<p>The latter End of <i>August, Vane</i>, with his Consort <i>Yeats</i>, came off <i>South-Carolina</i>, and took a Ship belonging to <i>Ipswich</i>, one <i>Coggershall</i> Commander, laden with Logwood, which was thought convenient enough for their own Business, and therefore ordered their Prisoners to work, and throw all the Lading over-board; but when they had more than half cleared the Ship, the Whim changed, and then they would not have her; so <i>Coggershall</i> had his Ship again, and he was suffered to pursue his Voyage home. In this Cruize the Rover took several other Ships and Vessels, particularly a Sloop from <i>Barbadoes, Dill</i> Master; a small Ship from <i>Antegoa, Cock</i> Master; a Sloop belonging to <i>Curacco, Richards</i> Master; and a large Brigantine, Captain <i>Thompson</i>, from <i>Guiney</i>, with ninety odd Negroes aboard. The Pyrates plundered them all and let them go, putting the Negroes out of the Brigantine aboard of <i>Yeat</i>’s Vessel, by which Means they came back again to the right Owners.</p>
			<p>For Captain <i>Vane</i>, having always treated his Consort with very little Respect, assuming a Superiority over <i>Yeats</i> and his small Crew, and regarding the Vessel but as a Tender to his own; gave them a Disgust, who thought themselves as good Pyrates, and as great Rogues as the best of them; so they caball’d together, and resolved to take the first Opportunity to leave the Company; and accept of his Majesty’s Pardon, or set up for themselves, either of which they thought more honourable than to be Servants to the former; and the putting aboard so many Negroes, where they found so few Hands to take Care of them, still aggravated the Matter, though they thought fit to conceal or stifle their Resentments at that Time.</p>
			<p>A Day or two afterwards, the Pyrates lying off at Anchor, <i>Yeats</i> in the Evening slipp’d his Cable, and put his Vessel under Sail, standing into the Shore; which, when <i>Vane</i> saw, he was highly provoked, and got his Sloop under Sail to chase his Consort, who, he plainly perceived, had a Mind to have no further Affairs with him: <i>Vane</i>’s Brigantine sailing best, he gained Ground of <i>Yeats</i>, and would certainly have come up with him, had he had a little longer Run for it; but just as he got over the Bar, when <i>Vane</i> came within Gun-shot of him, he fired a Broadside at his old Friend, (which did him no Damage,) and so took his Leave.</p>
			<p><i>Yeats</i> came into <i>North Edisto</i> River, about ten Leagues Southward of <i>Charles-Town</i>, and sent an Express to the Governor, to know if he and his Comrades might have the Benefit of his Majesty’s Pardon, and they would surrender themselves to his Mercy, with the Sloops and Negroes; which being granted, they all came up and received Certificates; and Captain <i>Thompson</i>, from whom the Negroes were taken, had them restored to him, for the Use of his Owners.</p>
			<p><i>Vane</i> cruised some Time off the Bar, in hopes to catch <i>Yeats</i> at his coming out again, but therein he was disappointed; however, he unfortunately for them, took two Ships from <i>Charles-Town</i>, bound home to <i>England</i>. It happen’d that just at this Time two Sloops well mann’d and arm’d, were equipp’d to go after a Pyrate, which the Governor of <i>South-Carolina</i> was informed, lay then in Cape <i>Fear</i> River, a cleaning: But Colonel <i>Rhet</i>, who commanded the Sloops, meeting with one of the Ships that <i>Vane</i> had plundered, going back over the Bar, for such Necessaries as had been taken from her, and she giving the Colonel an Account of her being taken by the Pyrate <i>Vane</i>, and also, that some of her Men, while they were Prisoners on Board of him, had heard the Pyrates say, they should clean in one of the Rivers to the Southward; he altered his first Design, and instead of standing to the Northward, in pursuit of the Pyrate in Cape <i>Fear</i> River, he turns to the Southward after <i>Vane</i>; who had ordered such Reports to be given out, on purpose to send any Force that should come after him, upon a wrong Scent; for in Reality he stood away to the Northward, so that the Pursuit proved to be the contrary Way.</p>
			<p>Colonel <i>Rhet</i>’s speaking with this Ship, was the most unlucky Thing that could have happened, because it turned him out of the Road, which in all Probability, would have brought him into the Company of <i>Vane</i>, as well as of the Pyrate he went after; and so they might have been both destroy’d; whereas, by the Colonel’s going a different Way, he not only lost the Opportunity of meeting with one, but if the other had not been infatuated, to lye six Weeks together at Cape <i>Fear</i>, he would have missed of him likewise: However, the Colonel having searched the Rivers and Inlets, as directed, for several Days, without Success, at length sailed in Prosecution of his first Design, and met with the Pyrate accordingly, whom he fought and took, as has been before spoken of, in the History of Major <i>Bonnet</i>.</p>
			<p>Captain <i>Vane</i> went into an Inlet to the Northward, where he met with Captain <i>Thatch</i>, or <i>Teach</i>, otherwise call’d <i>Black-beard</i>, whom he saluted (when he found who he was) with his great Guns, loaded with Shot, (as is the Custom among Pyrates when they meet) which are fired wide, or up into the Air: <i>Black-beard</i> answered the Salute in the same Manner, and mutual Civilities passed for some Days; when about the Beginning of <i>October, Vane</i> took Leave, and sailed further to the Northward.</p>
			<p>On the 23d of <i>October</i>, off of <i>Long Island</i>, he took a small Brigantine, bound from <i>Jamaica</i> to <i>Salem</i> in <i>New-England, John Shattock</i> Master, and a little Sloop; they rifled the Brigantine, and sent her away. From hence they resolved on a Cruize between Cape <i>Meise</i> and Cape <i>Nicholas</i>, where they spent some Time, without seeing or speaking with any Vessel, till the latter End of <i>November</i>; then they fell upon a Ship, which ’twas expected would have struck as soon as their black Colours were hoisted; but instead of that, she discharged a Broadside upon the Pyrate, and hoisted Colours, which shewed her to be a <i>French</i> Man of War. <i>Vane</i> desired to have nothing further to say to her, but trimm’d his Sails, and stood away from the <i>French</i> Man; but <i>Monsieur</i> having a Mind to be better informed who he was, set all his Sails, and crowded after him. During this Chace, the Pyrates were divided in their Resolutions what to do: <i>Vane</i>, the Captain, was for making off as fast as he could, alledging the Man of War was too strong to cope with; but one <i>John Rackam</i>, who was an Officer, that had a kind of a Check upon the Captain, rose up in Defence of a contrary Opinion, saying, <i>That tho’ she had more Guns, and a greater Weight of Mettal, they might board her, and then the best Boys would carry the Day. Rackam</i> was well seconded, and the Majority was for boarding; but <i>Vane</i> urged, <i>That it was too rash and desperate an Enterprize, the Man of War appearing to be twice their Force; and that their Brigantine might be sunk by her before they could reach on board</i>. The Mate, one <i>Robert Deal</i>, was of <i>Vane</i>’s Opinion, as were about fifteen more, and all the rest joined with <i>Rackam</i>, the Quarter-Master. At length the Captain made use of his Power to determine this Dispute, which, in these Cases, is absolute and uncontroulable, by their own Laws, <i>viz</i>. in <i>fighting, chasing</i>, or <i>being chased</i>; in all other Matters whatsoever, he is governed by a Majority; so the Brigantine having the Heels, as they term it, of the <i>French</i> Man, she came clear off.</p>
			<p>But the next Day, the Captain’s Behaviour was obliged to stand the Test of a Vote, and a Resolution passed against his Honour and Dignity, branding him with the Name of Coward, deposing him from the Command, and turning him out of the Company, with Marks of Infamy; and, with him, went all those who did not Vote for boarding the <i>French</i> Man of War. They had with them a small Sloop that had been taken by them some Time before, which they gave to <i>Vane</i>, and the discarded Members; and, that they might be in a Condition to provide for themselves, by their own honest Endeavours, they let them have a sufficient Quantity of Provisions and Ammunition along with them.</p>
			<p><i>John Rackam</i> was voted Captain of the Brigantine, in <i>Vane</i>’s Room, and proceeded towards the <i>Caribbee Islands</i>, where we must leave him, till we have finished our Story of <i>Charles Vane</i>.</p>
			<p>The Sloop sailed for the Bay of <i>Honduras</i>, and <i>Vane</i> and his Crew put her into as good a Condition as they could by the Way, to follow the old Trade. They cruised two or three Days off the North-West Part of <i>Jamaica</i>, and took a Sloop and two Pettiagas, and all the Men entered with them; the Sloop they kept, and <i>Robert Deal</i> went Captain of her.</p>
			<p>On the 16th of <i>December</i> the two Sloops came into the Bay, where they found only one at an Anchor, call’d the <i>Pearl</i>, of <i>Jamaica</i>, Captain <i>Charles Rowling</i> Master, who got under Sail at the Sight of them; but the Pyrate Sloops coming near <i>Rowling</i>, and shewing no Colours, he gave them a Gun or two; whereupon they hoisted the black Flag, and fired three Guns each, at the <i>Pearl</i>; she struck, and the Pyrates took Possession, and carried her away to a small Island called <i>Barnacko</i>, and there they cleaned, meeting in the Way with a Sloop from <i>Jamaica</i>, Captain <i>Wallden</i> Commander, going down to the Bay, which they also made Prize of.</p>
			<p>In <i>February, Vane</i> sailed from <i>Barnacko</i>, in order for a Cruize; but some Days after he was out, a violent Turnado overtook him, which separated him from his Consort, and after two Days Distress, threw his Sloop upon a small uninhabited Island, near the Bay of <i>Honduras</i>, where she was staved to Pieces, and most of her Men drowned: <i>Vane</i> himself was saved, but reduced to great Streights, for want of Necessaries, having no Opportunity to get any Thing from the Wreck. He lived here some Weeks, and was subsisted chiefly by Fishermen, who frequented the Island with small Craft, from the Main, to catch Turtles, <i>&amp;c</i>.</p>
			<p>While <i>Vane</i> was upon this Island, a Ship put in from <i>Jamaica</i> for Water, the Captain of which, one <i>Holford</i>, an old Buccaneer, happened to be <i>Vane</i>’s Acquaintance; he thought this a good Opportunity to get off, and accordingly applied to his old Friend; but he absolutely refused him, saying to him, Charles, <i>I shan’t trust you aboard my Ship, unless I carry you a Prisoner; for I shall have you caballing with my Men, knock me on the Head, and run away with my Ship a pyrating. Vane</i> made all the Protestations of Honour in the World to him; but, it seems, Captain <i>Holford</i> was too intimately acquainted with him, to repose any Confidence at all in his Words or Oaths. He told him, <i>He might easily find a Way to get off, if he had a Mind to it: I am now going down the Bay</i>, says he, <i>and shall return hither, in about a Month; and if I find you upon the Island when I come back, I’ll carry you to</i> Jamaica, <i>and hang you. Which Way can I get away</i>? Answers <i>Vane. Are there not Fishermen’s Dories upon the Beach? Can’t you take one of them</i>? Replies <i>Holford. What</i>, says <i>Vane, would you have me steal a Dory then? Do you make it a Matter of Conscience</i>? Said <i>Holford, to steal a Dory, when you have been a common Robber and Pyrate, stealing Ships and Cargoes, and plundering all Mankind that fell in your Way? Stay there, and be d⁠—n’d, if you are so Squeamish</i>: And so left him.</p>
			<p>After Captain <i>Holford</i>’s Departure, another Ship put in to the same Island in her Way home for Water; none of whose Company knowing <i>Vane</i>, he easily passed upon them for another Man, and so was shipp’d for the Voyage. One would be apt to think that <i>Vane</i> was now pretty safe, and likely to escape the Fate which his Crimes had merited; but here a cross Accident happen’d that ruin’d all: <i>Holford</i>, returning from the Bay, was met with by this Ship; the Captains being very well acquainted together, <i>Holford</i> was invited to dine aboard of him, which he did; and as he passed along to the Cabin, he chanced to cast his Eye down the Hold, and there saw <i>Charles Vane</i> at work; he immediately spoke to the Captain, saying, <i>Do you know who you have got aboard here? Why</i>, says he, <i>I have shipp’d a Man at such an Island, who was cast away in a trading Sloop, he seems to be a brisk Hand. I tell you</i>, says Captain <i>Holford, it is</i> Vane <i>the notorious Pyrate. If it be him</i>, replies the other, <i>I won’t keep him: Why then</i>, says <i>Holford, I’ll send and take him aboard, and surrender him at</i> Jamaica. Which being agreed to, Captain <i>Holford</i>, as soon as he returned to his Ship, sent his Boat with his Mate armed, who coming to <i>Vane</i>, shewed him a Pistol, and told him, <i>He was his Prisoner</i>; which none opposing, he was brought aboard, and put in Irons; and when Captain <i>Holford</i> arrived at <i>Jamaica</i>, he delivered his old Acquaintance into the Hands of Justice; at which Place he was try’d, convicted, and executed, as was, some Time before, <i>Vane</i>’s Consort, <i>Robert Deal</i>, brought thither by one of the Men of War.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
