<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-22" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 class="chapter" id="chapter-21">CHAP. XVI.<br/>
			OF<br/>
			Captain <i>Spriggs</i>,<br/>
			And his Crew.</h2>
			<p>S<i>Priggs</i> sailed with <i>Low</i> for a pretty while, and I believe came away from <i>Lowther</i>, along with him; he was Quarter-Master to the Company, and consequently had a great Share in all the Barbarities committed by that execrable Gang, till the Time they parted; which was about <i>Christmas</i> last, when <i>Low</i> took a Ship of 12 Guns on the Coast of <i>Guiney</i>, called the <i>Delight</i>, (formerly the <i>Squirrel</i> Man of War,) commanded by Captain <i>Hunt. Spriggs</i> took Possession of the Ship with eighteen Men, left <i>Low</i> in the Night, and came to the <i>West-Indies.</i> This Separation was occasioned by a Quarrel with <i>Low</i>, concerning a Piece of Justice <i>Spriggs</i> would have executed upon one of the Crew, for killing a Man in cold Blood, as they call it, one insisting that he should be hang’d, and the other that he should not.</p>
			<p>A Day or two after they parted, <i>Spriggs</i> was chose Captain by the rest, and a black Ensign was made, which they called <i>Jolly Roger</i>, with the same Device that Captain <i>Low</i> carried, <i>viz.</i> a white Skeliton in the Middle of it, with a Dart in one Hand striking a bleeding Heart, and in the other, an Hour-Glass; when this was finished and hoisted, they fired all their Guns to salute their Captain and themselves, and then looked out for Prey.</p>
			<p>In their Voyage to the <i>West-Indies</i>, these Pyrates took a <i>Portuguese</i> Bark, wherein they got valuable Plunder, but not contented with that alone, they said they would have a little Game with the Men, and so ordered them a Sweat, more for the Brutes Diversion, than the poor Men’s Healths; which Operation is performed after this Manner; they stick up lighted Candles circularly round the Mizon-Mast, between Decks, within which the Patients one at a Time enter; without the Candles, the Pyrates post themselves, as many as can stand, forming another Circle, and armed with Pen-Knives, Tucks, Forks, Compasses, <i>&amp;c.</i> and as he runs round and round, the Musick playing at the same Time, they prick him with those Instuments; this usually lasts for 10 or 12 Minutes, which is as long as the miserable Man can support himself. When the Sweating was over, they gave the <i>Portuguese</i> their Boat with a small Quantity of Provisions, and set their Vessel on Fire.</p>
			<p>Near the Island of St. <i>Lucia</i>, they took a Sloop belonging to <i>Barbadoes</i>, which they plundered, and then burnt, forcing some of the Men to sign their Articles, the others they beat and cut in a barbarous Manner, because they refused to take on with the Crew, and then sent them away in the Boat, who all got safe afterwards to <i>Barbadoes.</i></p>
			<p>The next was a <i>Martinico</i> Man, which they served as bad as they had done the others, but did not burn their Ship. Some Days afterwards in running down to Leeward, they took one Captain <i>Hawkins</i>, coming from <i>Jamaica</i>, loaden chiefly with Logwood; they took out of her, Stores, Arms, Ammunition, and several other Things, as they thought fit, and what they did not want they threw over-board or destroy’d; they cut the Cables to pieces, knocked down the Cabins, broke all the Windows, and in short took all the Pains in the World to be Mischievous. They took by Force, out of her, Mr. <i>Burridge</i> and Mr. <i>Stephens</i>, the two Mates, and some other Hands; and after detaining the Ship from the 22d of <i>March</i>, to the 29th, they let her go. On the 27th they took a <i>Rhode Island</i> Sloop, Captain <i>Pike</i>, and all his Men were obliged to go aboard the Pyrate; but the Mate being a grave sober Man, and not inclinable to stay, they told him, he should have his Discharge, and that it should be immediately writ on his Back; whereupon he was sentenced to receive ten Lashes from every Man in the Ship, which was rigorously put in Execution.</p>
			<p>The next Day Mr. <i>Burridge</i>, Captain <i>Hawkins</i>’s Mate, sign’d their Articles, which was so agreeable to them (he being a good Artist and Sailor) that they gave three Huzza’s, fir’d all the Guns in the Ship, and appointed him Master: The Day was spent in boysterous Mirth, roaring and drinking of Healths, among which was, by Mistake, that of King <i>George</i> the II. for you must know, now and then the Gentry are provok’d to sudden Fits of Loyalty, by the Expectation of an Act of Grace: It seems Captain <i>Pike</i> had heard at <i>Jamaica</i> that the King was dead, so the Pyrates immediately hoisted their Ensign Half-Mast (the Death Signal) and proclaim’d his Royal Highness, saying, <i>They doubted not but there would be a general Pardon in a twelve Month, which they would embrace and come in upon, but damn ’em if they should be excepted out of it, they would murder every</i> Englishman <i>that should fall into their Hands.</i></p>
			<p>The second of <i>April</i>, they spy’d a Sail, and gave her Chace till 12 o’Clock at Night, the Pyrates believed her to be a <i>Spaniard</i>, when they came close up to her, they discharged a Broadside, with small and great Shot, which was follow’d by another, but the Ship making a lamentable Cry for Quarters, they ceas’d firing, and ordered the Captain to come aboard, which he did, but how disappointed the Rogues were when they found ’twas their old Friend Captain <i>Hawkins</i>, whom they had sent away three Days before, worth not one Penny? This was such a Baulk to them, that they resolved he should suffer for falling in their Way, tho’ it was so contrary to his own Inclinations: About 15 of them surrounded the poor Man with sharp Cutlashes, and fell upon him, whereby he was soon laid flat on the Deck; at that Instant <i>Burridge</i> flew amongst the thickest of the Villains, and begg’d earnestly for his Life, upon whose Request ’twas granted. They were now most of ’em drunk, as is usual at this Time of Night, so they unanimously agreed to make a Bonfire of <i>Hawkins</i>’s Ship, which was immediately done, and in half an Hour she was all of a Blaze.</p>
			<p>After this, they wanted a little more Diversion, and so Captain <i>Hawkins</i> was sent for down to the Cabin to Supper; what should the Provision be, but a Dish of Candles, which he was forced to eat, having a naked Sword and a Pistol held to his Breast all the while; when this was over, they buffeted him about for some Time, and sent him forward amongst the other Prisoners, who had been treated with the same Delicacies.</p>
			<p>Two Days afterwards, they anchor’d at a little uninhabited Island, call’d <i>Rattan</i>, near the Bay of <i>Honduras</i>, and put ashore Captain <i>Hawkins</i>, and several other Men, (one of them his Passenger) who dy’d there of the Hardships he underwent. They gave them Powder and Ball, and a Musquet, with which they were to shift as they could, sailing away the next Day for other Adventures.</p>
			<p>Captain <i>Hawkins</i>, and his unfortunate Companions, staid 19 Days upon this Island, supplying themselves with both Fish and Fowl, such as they were, at which Time came two Men in a Canoe, that had been left upon another marroon Island near <i>Benacca</i>, who carry’d the Company at several Times thither, it being more convenient in having a good Well of fresh Water, and Plenty of Fish, <i>&amp;c.</i> Twelve Days afterwards they spy’d a Sloop off at Sea, which, upon their making a great Smoke, stood in, and took them off; she was the <i>Merriam</i>, Captain <i>Jones</i>, lately escaped out of the Bay of <i>Honduras</i>, from being taken by the <i>Spaniards.</i></p>
			<p>At an Island to the Westward, the Pyrates clean’d their Ship, and sail’d towards the Island of St. <i>Christophers</i>, to wait for one Captain <i>Moor</i>, who commanded the <i>Eagle</i> Sloop, when she took <i>Lowther</i>’s upon the Careen, at <i>Blanco</i>; <i>Spriggs</i> resolved to put him to Death, whenever he took him, for falling upon his Friend and Brother, but instead of <i>Moor</i>, he found a <i>French</i> Man of War from <i>Martinico</i> upon the Coast, which <i>Spriggs</i> not thinking fit to contend with, run away with all the Sail he could make, the <i>French</i> Man crowded after him, and was very likely to speak with Mr. <i>Spriggs</i>, when unfortunately his Main-Top-Mast came by the Board, which obliged him to give over the Chace.</p>
			<p><i>Spriggs</i> then stood to the Northward, towards <i>Burmudas</i>, or the <i>Summer Isles</i>, and took a Scooner belonging to <i>Boston</i>; he took out all the Men and sunk the Vessel, and had the Impudence to tell the Master, that he designed to encrease his Company on the Banks of <i>Newfoundland</i>, and then would sail for the Coast of <i>New-England</i> in quest of Captain <i>Solgard</i>, who attack’d and took their Consort <i>Charles Harris, Spriggs</i> being then in <i>Low</i>’s Sloop, who very fairly run for it. The Pyrate ask’d the Master if he knew Captain <i>Solgard</i>, who answering No; he ask’d another the same Question, and then a third, who said he knew him very well, upon which <i>Spriggs</i> ordered him to be sweated, which was done in the Manner before describ’d.</p>
			<p>Instead of going to <i>Newfoundland</i> as the Pyrates threat’ned, they came back to the Islands, and to Windward of St. <i>Christophers</i>, on the 4th of <i>June</i> last, took a Sloop, <i>Nicholas Trot</i> Master, belonging to St. <i>Eustatia</i>, and wanting a little Diversion, they hoisted the Men as high as the Main and Fore Tops, and let them run down amain, enough to break all the Bones in their Skins, and after they had pretty well crippled them by this cruel Usage, and whipp’d them about the Deck, they gave <i>Trot</i> his Sloop, and let him go, keeping back only 2 of his Men, besides the Plunder of the Vessel.</p>
			<p>Within two or three Days they took a Ship coming from <i>Rhode-Island</i> to St. <i>Christophers</i>, loaden with Provisions and some Horses; the Pyrates mounted the Horses and rid them about the Deck backwards and forwards a full Gallop, like Madmen at <i>New-Market</i>, cursing, swearing, and hallowing, at such a Rate, that made the poor Creatures wild, and at length, two or three of them throwing their Riders, they fell upon the Ship’s Crew, and whipp’d, and cut, and beat them in a barbarous Manner, telling them, it was for bringing Horses without Boots and Spurs, for want of which they were not able to ride them.</p>
			<p>This is the last Account we have had of Captain <i>Spriggs</i>, I shall only add the two following Relations, and conclude.</p>
			<p>A Brigantine belonging to <i>Bristol</i>, one <i>Mr. Rowry</i> Master, had been trading at <i>Gambia</i>, in <i>Africa</i>, and falling as low as Cape <i>Mount</i>, to finish the slaving of the Vessel, he had, by a Misfortune usual at that Part of the Coast, his Mate, Surgeon, and two more of his Men, <i>Panyarr</i>’d<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-1" id="noteref-1" epub:type="noteref">1</a> by the Negroes. The Remainder of his Company, which was not above 5 or 6 in Number, took this Opportunity, and seiz’d the Vessel in the Road, making the Master Prisoner.</p>
			<p>You will think it prodigious impudent that so small a Number should undertake to proceed a pyrating, especially when neither of them had sufficient Skill in Navigation: Yet this they did, leaving those People, their Ship-Mates abovemention’d, to the Mercy of the barbarous Natives, and sail’d away down the Coast, making them a black Flag, which they merrily said, would be as good as 50 Men more, <i>i.e.</i> would carry as much Terror; and that they did not doubt of soon increasing their Crew, to put them in an enterprizing Capacity; but their vain Projection was soon happily frustrated, and after this Manner.</p>
			<p>The Master whose Life they had preserved, (perhaps only for supplying their own Unskillfulness in Navigation,) advised them, that since contrary to their Expectations, they had met with no Ship between <i>Cape Mount</i>, and the <i>Bite</i> of <i>Calabar</i>, to proceed to the Island of St. <i>Thomas</i>’s, where they might recruit with Provisions and Water, and sell off the Slaves (about 70 of them) which they perceived would be a useless Lumber, and incommodious to their Design. They arrived there in <i>August</i> 1721, and one Evening, while Part of them were on Shore, applying for this Purpose to the Governor, and the other Part carelesly from the Deck, Mr. <i>Rowry</i> stepp’d into the Boat belonging to the Vessel, and pushed off, very suddenly: They heard the Noise it made, and soon were upon Deck again, but having no other Boat to pursue, nor a Musket, ready to fire, he got safe on Shore, and ran to the Governor with his Complaint, who immediately imprisoned those already there, and sent a Launch off to take the rest out of the Ship.</p>
			<p>The <i>Swallow</i> arrived at St. <i>Thomas</i>’s the Beginning of <i>October</i> following, where, on Mr. <i>Rowry</i>’s Remonstrance, Application was made to the <i>Portuguese</i> Governor of that Island, for a Surrendery of these five <i>English</i> Prisoners then in the Castle; but he not only peremptorily excused himself from it, as a Matter out of his Power, without particular Direction from the Court of <i>Portugal</i>; but withal insinuated, that they had only taken Refuge there from the Hardships and Severity they had met with from their Master. The manner of Denial, and the avaritious Temper of the Gentleman, which I had Occasion to be acquainted with, makes it very suspicious, that he proposed considerable Gains to himself; for if Mr. <i>Rowry</i> had not made such an Escape to him, the Slaves had been his for little or nothing, as a Bribe to silence his Suspicions, which any Man, less acute than he, must have had from the awkward and unskilful Carriage of such Merchants. But enough of this; perhaps he is not the only Governor abroad that finds an Interest in countenancing these Fellows.</p>
			<h3>An Account of the Pyracies and Murders committed by <i>Philip Roche</i>, <i>&amp;c.</i></h3>
			<p>P<i>Hilip Roche</i> was born in <i>Ireland</i>, and from his Youth had been bred up to the Sea; he was a brisk genteel Fellow, of 30 Years of Age at the Time of his Death; one whose black and savage Nature did no ways answer the Comliness of his Person, his Life being almost one continued Scene of Villany, before he was discovered to have committed the horrid Murders we are now speaking of.</p>
			<p>This inhumane Monster had been concerned with others, in insuring Ships to a great Value, and then destroying them; by which Means, and other Rogueries, he had got a little Money; and being Mate of a Ship, was dilligent enough in trading for himself between <i>Ireland</i> and <i>France</i>, so that he was in a Way of getting himself a comfortable Livelihood: But, as he resolved to be rich, and finding fair Dealing brought in Wealth but slowly, he contriv’d to put other Things in Execution, and certainly had murthered several innocent Persons in the Prosecution of his abominable Schemes; but as I have now forgot the particular Circumstances of those Relations, I shall confine my self at present to the Fact for which he suffer’d.</p>
			<p><i>Roche</i> getting acquainted with one <i>Neal</i>, a Fisherman at <i>Cork</i>, whom he found ready for any villainous Attempt, he imparted his Design to him, who being pleas’d with the Project, brings one <i>Pierce Cullen</i> and his Brother into the Confederacy, together with one <i>Wise</i>, who at first was very unwilling to come into their Measures, and, indeed, had the least Hand in the Perpetration of what follows.</p>
			<p>They pitch’d upon a Vessel in the Harbour, belonging to <i>Peter Tartoue</i>, a <i>French</i> Man, to execute their cruel Intentions upon, because it was a small one, and had not a great Number of Hands on Board, and ’twas easy afterwards to exchange it for one more fit for Pyracy; and therefore they apply’d themselves to the Master of her, for a Passage to <i>Nantz</i>, whereto the Ship was bound; and accordingly, the Beginning of <i>November</i> 1721, they went aboard; and when at Sea, <i>Philip Roche</i> being an experienced Sailor, the Master of the Vessel readily trusted him with the Care of her, at times, while he and the Mate went to rest.</p>
			<p>The 15th of <i>November</i>, at Night, was the Time designed for the Tragedy; but <i>Francis Wise</i> relented, and appear’d desirous to divert them from their bloody Purposes. <i>Roche</i> (sometimes called Captain) told him, <i>That as</i> Cullen <i>and he had sustained great Losses at Sea, unless every</i> Irishman <i>present would assist in repairing their Losses, by murthering all the</i> French <i>Rogues, and running away with the Ship, he should suffer the same Fate with the</i> French <i>Men; but if all would assist, all should have a Share in the Booty.</i> Upon this, they all resolved alike, and Captain <i>Roche</i> ordered three <i>Frenchmen</i> and a Boy up to hand the Topsails, the Master and Mate being then asleep in their Cabins, The two first that came down, they beat out their Brains and threw them over-board: The other two seeing what was done, ran up to the Topmast Head, but <i>Cullen</i> followed them, and taking the Boy by the Arm, tost him into the Sea; then driving down the Man, those below knocked him on the Head, and threw him over-board.</p>
			<p>Those who were asleep, being awakened by the dismal Skrieks and Groans of dying Men, ran upon Deck in Confusion, to enquire into the Cause of such unusual Noises; but the same Cruelty was immediately acted towards them, e’er they could be sensible of the Danger that threat’ned them.</p>
			<p>They were now (as <i>Roche</i> himself afterwards confess’d) <i>all over as wet with the Blood that had been spilt, as if they had been dipp’d in Water, or stood in a Shower of Rain, nor did they regard it any more. Roche</i> said, Captain <i>Tartoue</i> used many Words for Mercy, and asked them, if he had not used them with Civility and Kindness? If they were not of the same Christian Religion, and owned the same blessed <i>Jesus</i>, and the like? But they, not regarding what he said, took Cords and bound the poor Master and his Mate Back to Back, and while that was doing, both of them begged with the utmost Earnestness, and used the most solemn Intreaties, that they would at least allow them a few Minutes to say their Prayers, and beg Mercy of God for the various Sins and Offences of their Lives: But it did not move them, (though all the rest were dead, and no Danger could be apprehended from them two alone) for the bound Persons were hurry’d up and thrown into the Sea.</p>
			<p>The Massacre being finished, they washed themselves a little from the Blood, and searched the Chests and Lockers, and all Places about the Ship, and then set down in the Captain’s Cabin, and refreshed themselves with some Rum they found there, and (as <i>Roche</i> confessed) were never merrier in their Lives. They invested <i>Roche</i> with the Command of the Ship, and calling him Captain, talked over their Liquor, what rare Actions they would perform about Cape <i>Briton, Sable Isle</i>, and the Banks of <i>Newfoundland</i>, whither they designed to go as soon as they had recruited their Company, and got a better Ship, which they proposed speedily to do.</p>
			<p><i>Roche</i> taking upon himself the Command of the Vessel, <i>Andrew Cullen</i> was to pass for a Merchant or Super-cargo; but when they bethought themselves, that they were in Danger of being discovered by the Papers of the Ship, relating to the Cargo, as Bills of Lading, <i>&amp;c.</i> therefore they erase and take out the Name of the <i>French</i> Master, and instead thereof, inserted the Name of <i>Roche</i>, so that it stood in the Ship’s Papers, <i>Peter Roche</i> Master; that then having so few Hands on Board, they contrived if they met any Ships, to give out, that they had lost some Hands by their being washed overboard in a Storm, and by that Means screen themselves from being suspected of having committed some such wicked Act, by Reason of the Fewness of their Hands on Board; and also might prevail with some Ship to spare them some, on Consideration of their pretended Disaster.</p>
			<p>In going to <i>Cales</i> they were in Distress by the Weather, and being near <i>Lisbon</i>, they made Complaint to a Ship, but obtained no Assistance. They were then obliged to sail back for <i>England</i>, and put into the Port of <i>Dartmouth</i>; but then they were in fear least they might be discovered, therefore to prevent that, they resolve to alter the Ship, and getting Workmen, they take down the Mizzen-Mast, and build a Spar Deck, and made Rails, (on pretence that the Sailors had been wash’d overboard) to secure the Men. Then they took down the Image of St. <i>Peter</i> at the Head of the Ship, and put up a Lion in its Place, and painted over the Stern of the Ship with Red, and new nam’d her the <i>Mary</i> Snow. The Ship being thus alter’d that they thought it could not be known, they fancy’d themselves pretty secure; but wanting Money to defray the Charge of these Alterations, <i>Roche</i>, as Master of the Vessel, and <i>Andrew Cullen</i>, as Merchant, apply themselves to the Officers of the Customs for Liberty to dispose of some of the Cargo, in order to pay the Workmen; which they having obtained, they sold fifty eight Barrels of Beef, and having hired three more Hands, they set Sail for <i>Ostend</i>, and there having sold more Barrels of Beef, they steer their Course to <i>Rotterdam</i>, dispose of the rest of the Cargo, and took in one Mr. <i>Annesly</i>, who freighted the Ship for <i>England</i>; but in their Passage, in a stormy Night, it being very dark, they took up Mr. <i>Annesly</i> their Passenger, and threw him into the Sea, who swam about the Ship a pretty while, calling out for Life, and telling them they should have all his Goods, if they would receive him again into the Vessel: But in vain were his Cries!</p>
			<p>After this, they were obliged to put into several Ports, and by contrary Winds, came to the Coast of <i>France</i>, and hearing there was an Enquiry made after the Ship, <i>Roche</i> quits her at <i>Havre de Grace</i>, and leaves the Management to <i>Cullen</i> and the rest; who having shipp’d other Men, sail’d away to <i>Scotland</i>, and there quitted the Vessel, which was afterwards seized and brought into the River of <i>Thames.</i></p>
			<p>Some Time after this, <i>Philip Roche</i> came to <i>London</i>, and making some Claim for Money, he had made Insurance of, in the Name of <i>John Eustace</i>, the Officer was apprized of the Fraud, and he arrested and flung into the Compter; from whence directing a Letter to his Wife, she shewed it to a Friend, who discovered by it, that he was the principal Villain concerned in the Destruction of <i>Peter Tartoue</i>, and the Crew. Upon this, an Information was given to my Lord <i>Carteret</i>, that the Person who went by the Name of <i>John Eustace</i>, was <i>Philip Roche</i>, as aforesaid; and being brought down by his Lordships Warrant, he stifly deny’d it for some Time, notwithstanding a Letter was found in his Pocket, directed to him by the Name of <i>Roche</i>; but being confronted by a Captain of a Ship, who knew him well, he confessed it, but prevaricated in several Particulars; whereupon he was committed to <i>Newgate</i> upon violent Suspicion, and the next Day was brought down again at his own Request, confessed the whole, desired to be made an Evidence, and promised to convict three Men worse than himself. Two were discovered by him, who died miserably in the <i>Marshalsea</i>, and <i>Roche</i> himself was afterwards try’d, (no more being taken,) found Guilty of the Pyracy, and executed.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
