<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XI: Of Captain Worley, and His Crew</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">Of Captain Worley, and His Crew</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>His reign was but short, but his beginning somewhat particular, setting out in a small open boat, with eight others, from New York. This was as resolute a crew as ever went upon this account: they took with them a few biscuits, and a dry’d tongue or two, a little Cag of water, half a dozen old muskets and ammunition accordingly. Thus provided, they left New York the latter end of <time datetime="1718-09">September 1718</time>, but it cannot be supposed that such a man-of-war as this, could undertake any considerable voyage, or attempt any extraordinary enterprise; so they stood down the coast, till they came to Delaware River, which is about 150 miles distant, and not meeting with anything in their way, they turn’d up the same River as high as Newcastle, near which place they fell upon a shallop belonging to George Grant, who was bringing household goods, plate, <abbr>etc.</abbr> from Oppoquenimi to Philadelphia; they made prize of the most valuable part of them, and let the shallop go. This fact could not come under the article of piracy, it not being committed <i xml:lang="la">super altum mare</i>, upon the high sea, therefore was a simple robbery only; but they did not stand for a Point of law in the case, but easing the shallop man of his lading, the bold adventurers went down the River again.</p>
			<p>The shallop came straight to Philadelphia, and brought the ill News thither, which so alarm’d the government, as if war had been declared against them; Expresses were sent to New York, and other places, and several vessels fitted out against this powerful <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Rover</i>, but to no manner of purpose; for after several days cruise, they all return’d, without so much as hearing what became of the robbers.</p>
			<p>Worley and his crew, in going down the river, met with a sloop of Philadelphia, belonging to a mulatto, whom they call’d Black Robbin; they quitted their boat for this sloop, taking one of Black Robin’s men along with them, as they had also done from George Grant, besides two negroes, which increased the company one third. A day or two after, they took another sloop belonging to hull, homeward bound, which was somewhat fitter for their purpose; they found aboard her, provisions and necessaries, which they stood in need of, and enabled them to prosecute their design, in a manner more suitable to their wishes.</p>
			<p>Upon the success of these Rovers, the Governor issued out a Proclamation, for the apprehending and taking all pirates, who had refused or neglected to surrender themselves, by the time limited in his Majesty’s Proclamation of pardon; and thereupon, ordered his Majesty’s ship <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Phoenix</i>, of 20 guns, which lay at Sandy Hook, to sea, to cruise upon this pirate, and secure the trade to that, and the adjoining colonies.</p>
			<p>In all probability, the taking this sloop sav’d their bacons, for this time, tho’ they fell into the trap presently afterwards; for they finding themselves in tolerable good condition, having a vessel newly cleaned, with provisions, <abbr>etc.</abbr> they stood off to sea, and so missed the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Phoenix</i>, who expected them to be still on the coast.</p>
			<p>About six weeks afterwards they returned, having taken both a sloop and a brigantine, among the Bahama Islands; the former they sunk, and the other they let go: the sloop belonged to New York, and they thought the sinking of her good policy, to prevent her returning to tell tales at home.</p>
			<p>Worley had by this time increased his company to about five and twenty men, had six guns mounted, and small arms as many as were necessary for them, and seem’d to be in a good thriving sort of a Way. He made a black Ensign, with a white death’s head in the middle of it, and other colours suitable to it. They all signed articles, and bound themselves under a solemn oath, to take no quarters, but to stand by one another to the last man, which was rashly fulfill’d a little afterwards.</p>
			<p>For going into an inlet in North Carolina, to clean, the Governor received information of it, and fitted out two sloops, one of eight guns, and the other with six, and about seventy men between them. Worley had clean’d his sloop, and sail’d before the Carolina sloops reached the place, and steered to the northward; but the sloops just mentioned, pursuing the same course, came in sight of Worley, as he was cruising off the Capes of Virginia, and being in the Offin, he stood in as soon as he saw the sloops, intending thereby to have cut them off from James River; for he verily believed they had been bound thither, not imagining, in the least, they were in pursuit of him.</p>
			<p>The two sloops standing towards the Capes at the same time, and Worley hoisting of his black flag, the inhabitants of James Town were in the utmost consternation, thinking that all three had been pirates, and that their design had been upon them; so that all the ships and vessels that were in the Road, or in the rivers up the Bay, had orders immediately to hale in to the shore, for their security, or else to prepare for their defence, if they thought themselves in a condition to fight. Soon after two boats, which were sent out to get intelligence, came crowding in, and brought an account, that one of the pirates was in the Bay, being a small sloop of six guns. The Governor expecting the rest would have followed, and altogether make some attempt to land, for the sake of plunder, beat to arms, and collected all the force that could be got together, to oppose them; he ordered all the guns out of the ships, to make a platform, and, in short, put the whole colony in a warlike posture; but was very much surprised at last, to see all the supposed pirates fighting with one another.</p>
			<p>The truth of the Matter is, Worley gained the bay, thinking to make sure of his two prizes, by keeping them from coming in; but by the hoisting of the King’s colours, and firing a gun, he quickly was sensible of his mistake, and too soon perceived that the tables were turned upon him; that instead of keeping them out, he found himself, by a superiour force kept in. When the pirates saw how things went, they resolutely prepar’d themselves for a desperate defence; and tho’ three to one odds, Worley and His crew determined to fight to the last gasp, and receive no quarters, agreeably to what they had before sworn; so that they must either Dye or conquer upon the spot.</p>
			<p>The Carolina men gave the pirate a broadside, and then boarded him, one sloop getting upon his quarter, and the other on his bow; Worley and the crew, drew up upon the deck, and fought very obstinately, hand to hand, so that in a few Minutes, abundance of men lay weltering in their Gore; the pirates proved as good as their words, not a man of them cry’d out for quarter, nor would accept of such, when offered, but were all killed except the Captain and another man, and those very much wounded, whom they reserved for the gallows. They were brought ashore in Irons, and the next day, which was the <time datetime="1719-02-17">17th of February 1718⁠–⁠19</time>, they were both hanged up, for fear they should dye, and evade the punishment as was thought due to their crimes.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
