<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title epub:type="z3998:roman">VIII: Of Captain Howel Davis, and His Crew</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="chapter-10" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">Of Captain Howel Davis, and His Crew</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Captain Howel Davis was born at Milford, in Monmouthshire, and was from a Boy brought up to the Sea. The last Voyage he made from England, was in the Cadogan Snow of Bristol, Captain Skinner Commander, bound for the Coast of Guiney, of which Snow Davis was chief Mate: they were no sooner arrived at Sierraleon on the aforesaid Coast, but they were taken by the pirate England, who plunder’d them, and Skinner was barbarously murdered, as has been related before in the Story of Captain England.</p>
			<p>After the Death of Captain Skinner, Davis pretended that he was mightily sollicited by England to engage with him; but that he resolutely answered, he would sooner be shot to Death than sign the pirates Articles. Upon which, England, pleased with his Bravery, sent him and the rest of the Men again on Board the Snow, appointing him Captain of her, in the Room of Skinner, commanding him to pursue his Voyage. He also gave him a written Paper sealed up, with Orders to open it when he should come into a certain Latitude, and at the Peril of his Life follow the Orders therein set down. This was an air of grandeur like what Princes practice to their Admirals and Generals.⁠—It was punctually complied with by Davis, who read it to the ship’s Company; it contained no less than a generous Deed of Gift of the ship and Cargoe, to Davis and the Crew, ordering him to go to Brasil and dispose of the Lading to the best Advantage, and to make a fair and equal dividend with the rest.</p>
			<p>Davis proposed to the crew, whether they were willing to follow their directions, but to his great surprise, found the majority of them altogether averse to it, wherefore in a Rage, he bad them be damn’d, and go where they would. They knew that Part of their Cargoe was consigned to certain Merchants at Barbados, wherefore they steered for that Island. When they arrived, they related to these Merchants the unfortunate Death of Skinner, and the Proposal which had been made to them by Davis; upon which Davis was seized and committed to Prison, where he was kept three Months; however, as he had been in no Act of piracy, he was discharged without being brought to any Tryal, yet he could not expect any Employment there; wherefore knowing that the Island of Providence was a kind of Rendevouz of pirates, he was resolved to make one amongst them, if possible, and to that Purpose, found Means of shipping himself for that Island; but he was again disappointed, for when he arrived there, the pirates had newly surrendered to Captain Woods Rogers, and accepted of the Act of Grace, which he had just brought from England.</p>
			<p>However, Davis was not long out of Business, for Captain Rogers having fitted out two sloops for Trade, one called the Buck, the other the Mumvil Trader; Davis found an Employment on Board of one of them; the Lading of these sloops was of considerable Value, consisting of European Goods, in order to be exchanged with the French and Spaniards; and many of the Hands on Board of them, were the pirates lately come in upon the late Act of Grace. The first Place they touched at, was the Island of Martinico, belonging to the French, where Davis having conspired with some others, rise in the Night, secured the Master and seized the sloop; as soon as this was done, they called to the other Sloop, which lay a little Way from them, among whom they knew there were a great many Hands ripe for Rebellion, and ordered them to come on Board of them; they did so, and the greatest Part of them agreed to join with Davis; those who were otherwise inclined, were sent back on Board the Mumvil Sloop, to go where they pleased, Davis having first taken out of her, every thing which he thought might be of use.</p>
			<p>After this, a Counsel of War was called over a large Bowl of Punch, at which it was proposed to choose a Commander; the Election was soon over, for it fell upon Davis by a great Majority of legal Pollers, there was no Scrutiny demanded, for all acquiesced in the Choice: as soon as he was possess’d of his Command, he drew up Articles, which were signed and sworn to by himself and the rest, then he made a short Speech, the sum of which, was, a Declaration of War against the whole World.</p>
			<p>After this they consulted about a proper Place where they might clean their Sloop, a light Pair of Heels being of great Use either to take, or escape being taken; for this purpose they made Choice of Coxon’s Hole, at the East End of the Island of Cuba, a Place where they might secure themselves from Surprise, the Entrance being so narrow, that one ship might keep out a hundred.</p>
			<p>Here they cleaned with much difficulty, for they had no carpenter in their company, a person of great use upon such exigencies; from hence they put to Sea, making to the North-Side of the Island of Hispaniola. The first Sail which fell in their Way, was a French ship of twelve Guns; it must be observed, that Davis had but thirty five Hands, yet provisions began to grow short with him; wherefore he attacked this ship, she soon struck, and he sent twelve of his Hands on Board of her, in order to plunder: this was no sooner done, but a Sail was spied a great Way to Windward of them; they enquired of the French Man what she might be, he answered, that he had spoke with a ship, the Day before, of 24 Guns and 60 Men, and he took this to be the same.</p>
			<p>Davis then proposed to his Men to attack her, telling them, she would be a rare Ship for their Use, but they looked upon it to be an extravagant Attempt, and discovered no Fondness for it, but he assured them he had a Stratagem in his Head would make all safe; wherefore he gave Chace, and ordered his Prize to do the same. The Prize being a slow Sailor, Davis first came up with the Enemy, and standing along sideof them, showed his piratical Colours: They, much surpriz’d, called to Davis, telling him, they wondered at his Impudence in venturing to come so near them, and ordered him to strike; but he answered, that he intended to keep them in Play, till his Consort came up, who was able to deal with them, and that if they did not strike to him, they should have but bad Quarters; whereupon he gave them a Broadside, which they returned.</p>
			<p>In the mean time the prize drew near, who obliged all the prisoners to come upon deck in white shirts, to make a Show of Force, as they had been directed by Davis; they also hoisted a dirty Tarpawlin, by Way of black Flag, they having no other, and fir’d a Gun: the French Men were so intimidated by this Appearance of Force, that they struck. Davis called out to the Captain to come on Board of him, with twenty of his Hands; he did so, and they were all for the greater Security clapt into Irons, the Captain excepted: then he sent four of his own Men on Board the first Prize, and in order still to carry on the Cheat, spoke aloud, that they should give his Service to the Captain, and desire him to send some Hands on Board the Prize, to see what they had got; but at the same time gave them a written Paper, with Instructions what to do. Here he ordered them to nail up the Guns in the little Prize, to take out all the small Arms and Powder, and to go every Man of them on Board the second Prize; when this was done, he ordered that more of the Prisoners should be removed out of the great Prize, into the little one, by which he secured himself from any Attempt which might be feared from their Numbers; for those on Board of him were fast in Irons, and those in the little Prize had neither Arms nor Ammunition.</p>
			<p>Thus the three ships kept Company for 2 Days, when finding the great Prize to be a very dull Sailor, he thought she would not be fit for his Purpose, wherefore he resolved to restore her to the Captain, with all his Hands; but first, he took Care to take out all her Ammunition, and every thing else which he might possibly want. The French Captain was in such a Rage, at being so outwitted, that when he got on Board his own ship, he was going to throw himself overboard, but was prevented by his men.</p>
			<p>Having let go both his prizes, he steered Northward, in which Course he took a small Spanish Sloop; after this, he made towards the Western Islands, but met with no Booty thereabouts; then he steered for the Cape de Verde Islands, they cast Anchor at <abbr>St.</abbr> Nicholas, hoisting English Colours; the Portuguese inhabiting there, took him for an English Privateer, and Davis going ashore, they both treated him very civilly, and also traded with him. Here he remained five Weeks, in which time, he and half his Crew, for their Pleasure, took a Journey to the chief Town of the Island, which was 19 Miles up the Country: Davis making a good Appearance, was caressed by the Governor and the Inhabitants, and no Diversion was wanting which the Portuguese could show, or money could purchase; after about a Week’s Stay, he came back to the ship, and the rest of the Crew went to take their Pleasure up to the Town, in their turn.</p>
			<p>At their Return they clean’d their ship, and put to Sea, but not with their whole Company; for five of them, like Hannibal’s Men, were so charm’d with the Luxuries of the Place, and the free Conversation of some Women, that they stayed behind; and one of them, whose Name was Charles Franklin, a Monmouthshire man, married and settled himself, and lives there to this day.</p>
			<p>From hence they sailed to Bonevista, and looked into that Harbour, but finding nothing, they steer’d for the Isle of May: when they arrived here, they met with a great many ships and Vessels in the Road, all which they plundered, taking out of them whatever they wanted; and also strengthen’d themselves with a great many fresh Hands, who most of them enter’d voluntarily. One of the ships they took to their own Use, mounted her with twenty six Guns, and call’d her the King James. There being no fresh Water hereabouts, they made towards <abbr>St.</abbr> Jago, belonging to the Portuguese, in order to lay in a Store; Davis, with a few Hands, going ashore to find the most commodious Place to water at, the Governor, with some Attendants, came himself and examined who they were, and whence they came? And not liking Davis’s Account of himself, the Governor was so plain to tell them, he suspected them to be pirates. Davis seemed mightily affronted, standing much upon his Honour, replying to the Governor, he scorn’d his Words; however, as soon as his Back was turn’d, for fear of Accidents, he got on Board again as fast as he could. Davis related what had happened, and his Men seemed to resent the Affront which had been offered him. Davis, upon this, told them, he was confident he could surprise the Fort in the Night; they agreed with him to attempt it, and accordingly, when it grew late, they went ashore well arm’d; and the Guard which was kept, was so negligent, that they got within the Fort before any Alarm was given: when it was too late there was some little Resistance made, and three Men killed on Davis’s Side. Those in the Fort, in their Hurry, run into the Governor’s House to save themselves, which they barricadoed so strongly, that Davis’s Party could not enter it; however, they threw in Granadoe-Shells, which not only ruin’d all the Furniture, but kill’d several men within.</p>
			<p>When it was day the whole country was alarm’d, and came to attack the pirates; wherefore it not being their business to stand a Siege, they made the best of their Way on Board their Ship again, after having dismounted the Guns of the Fort. By this enterprize they did a great Deal of mischief to the Portuguese, and but very little good to themselves.</p>
			<p>Having put to Sea they muster’d their hands, and found themselves near seventy strong; then it was proposed what course they should steer, and differing in their Opinions, they divided, and by a Majority it was carried for Gambia on the Coast of Guiney; of this Opinion was Davis, he having been employ’d in that Trade, was acquainted with the Coast: he told them, that there was a great deal of money always kept in <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Gambia Castle</i>, and that it would be worth their while to make an Attempt upon it. They ask’d him how it was possible, since it was garrisoned? He desired they would leave the Management of it to him, and he would undertake to make them Masters of it. They began now to conceive so high an Opinion of his Conduct, as well as Courage, that they thought nothing impossible to him, therefore they agreed to obey him, without enquiring further into his Design.</p>
			<p>Having come within sight of the place, he ordered all his men under deck, except as many as were absolutely necessary for working the ship, that those from the Fort seeing a ship with so few Hands, might have no Suspicion of her being any other than a trading Vessel; then he ran close under the Fort, and there cast Anchor; and having ordered out the boat, he commanded six Men in her, in old ordinary Jackets, while he himself, with the Master and Doctor, dressed themselves like Gentlemen; his Design being, that the Men should look like common Sailors, and they like Merchants. In rowing ashore he gave his men instructions what to say in case any questions should be asked them.</p>
			<p>Being come to the landing place, he was received by a file of musqueteers, and conducted into the Fort, where the Governor accosting them civilly, ask’d them who they were, and whence they came? They answered they were of Liverpool, bound for the River of Sinnegal, to trade for Gum and Elephants Teeth, but that they were chaced on that Coast by two French Men of War, and narrowly escaped being taken, having a little the Heels of them; but now they were resolved to make the best of a bad Market, and would Trade here for Slaves; then the Governor ask’d them, what was the chief of their Cargo? They answered, Iron and Plate, which were good things there; the Governor told them he would Slave them to the full Value of their Cargoe, and asked them, if they had any European Liquor on Board? they answered, a little for their own Use; however, a Hamper should be at his Service. The Governor then very civilly invited them all to stay and dine with him; Davis told him, that being Commander of the ship, he must go on Board to see her well moored, and give some other Orders, but those two Gentlemen might stay, and that he himself would also return before Dinner, and bring the hamper of liquor with him.</p>
			<p>While he was in the Fort, his Eyes were very busy in observing how things lay; he took Notice there was a Centry at the Entrance, and a Guardhouse just by it, where the Soldiers upon Duty commonly waited, their Arms standing in a Corner, in a Heap; he saw also a great many small Arms in the Governor’s Hall; now when he came on Board, he assured his Men of Success, desiring them not to get drunk, and that as soon as they saw the Flag upon the Castle struck, they might conclude he was Master, and send twenty Hands immediately ashore; in the mean time, there being a sloop at Anchor near them, he sent some Hands in a boat, to secure the Master and all the Men, and bring them on Board of him, least they observing any Bustle or arming in his ship, might send ashore and give intelligence.</p>
			<p>These precautions being taken, he ordered his men, who were to go in the boat with him, to put two Pair of Pistols each under their Clothes, he doing the like himself, and gave them Directions to go into the Guardroom, and to enter into Conversation with the Soldiers, and observe when he should fire a Pistol thro’ the Governor’s Window, to start up at once and secure the arms in the guardroom.</p>
			<p>When Davis arrived, dinner not being ready, the governor proposed that they should pass their time in making a bowl of punch till dinnertime: it must be observed, that Davis’s Coxen waited upon them, who had an Opportunity of going about all Parts of the House, to see what Strength they had, he whispered Davis, there being no Person then in the Room, but he, (Davis) the Master, the Doctor, the Coxen and Governor; Davis on a sudden drew out a Pistol, clapt it to the Governor’s Breast, telling him, he must surrender the Fort and all the Riches in it, or he was a dead Man. The Governor being no Ways prepared for such an Attack, promised to be very Passive, and do all they desired, therefore they shut the Door, took down all the Arms that hung in the Hall, and loaded them. Davis fires his Pistol thro’ the Window, upon which his Men, without, executed their Part of the Scheme, like Heroes, in an Instant; getting betwixt the Soldiers and their Arms, all with their Pistols cock’d in their Hands, while one of them carried the Arms out. When this was done, they locked the Soldiers into the Guardroom, and kept guard without.</p>
			<p>In the mean time one of them struck the Union Flag on the Top of the Castle, at which Signal those on Board sent on shore a Reinforcement of Hands, and they got Possession of the Fort without the least Hurry or Confusion, or so much as a Man lost of either Side.</p>
			<p>Davis harangued the soldiers, upon which a great many of them took on with him, those who refused, he sent on board the little sloop, and because he would not be at the Trouble of a Guard for them, he ordered all the Sails and Cables out of her, which might hinder them from attempting to get away.</p>
			<p>This Day was spent in a kind of Rejoycing, the Castle firing her Guns to salute the ship, and the ship the Castle; but the next Day they minded their Business, that is, they fell to plundering, but they found things fall vastly short of their Expectation; for they discovered, that a great deal of money had been lately sent away; however, they met with the Value of about two thousand Pounds Sterling in Bar Gold, and a great many other rich Effects: every thing they liked, which was portable, they brought aboard their Ship; some things which they had no Use for, they were so generous to make a Present of, to the Master and Crew of the little Sloop, to whom they also returned his Vessel again, and then they fell to work in dismounting the Guns, and demolishing the fortifications.</p>
			<p>After they had done as much mischief as they could, and were weighing Anchor to be gone, they spy’d a ship bearing down upon them in full Sail; they soon got their Anchor’s up, and were in a Readiness to receive her. This ship prov’d to be a French pirate of fourteen Guns and sixty four Hands, half French, half negroes; the Captain’s Name was La Bouse; he expected no less than a rich Prize, which made him so eager in the Chace; but when he came near enough to see their Guns, and the Number of their Hands upon Deck, he began to think he should catch a Tartar, and supposed her to be a small English Man of War; however, since there was no escaping, he resolved to do a bold and desperate Action, which was to board Davis. As he was making towards her, for this Purpose, he fired a Gun, and hoisted his black Colours; Davis returned the Salute, and hoisted his black Colours also. The French Man was not a little pleased at this happy Mistake; they both hoisted out their boats, and the Captains went to meet and congratulate one another with a Flag of Truce in their Sterns; a great many Civilities passed between them, and La Bouse desired Davis, that they might sail down the Coast together, that he (La Bouse) might get a better Ship: Davis agreed to it, and very courteously promised him the first Ship he took, fit for his Use, he would give him, as being willing to encourage a willing brother.</p>
			<p>The first Place they touch’d at, was Sierraleon, where at first going in, they spied a tall Ship at Anchor; Davis being the best Sailor first came up with her, and wondering that she did not try to make off, suspected her to be a ship of Force. As soon as he came along sideof her, she brought a Spring upon her Cable, and fired a whole Broadside upon Davis, at the same time hoisted a black Flag; Davis hoisted his black Flag in like Manner, and fired one Gun to leeward.</p>
			<p>In fine, she proved to be a pirate ship of twenty four Guns, commanded by one Cocklyn, who expecting these two would prove prizes, let them come in, least his getting under sail might frighten them away.</p>
			<p>This Satisfaction was great on all Sides, at this Junction of Confederates and Brethren in Iniquity; two Days they spent in improving their Acquaintance and friendship, the third Day Davis and Cocklyn, agreed to go in La Bouse’s brigantine and attack the Fort; they contrived it so, as to get up thither by high Water; those in the Fort suspected them to be what they really were, and therefore stood upon their Defence; when the brigantine came within Musket-Shot, the Fort fired all their Guns upon her, the brigantine did the like upon the Fort, and so held each other in Play for several Hours, when the two confederate ships were come up to the Assistance of the brigantine; those who defended the Fort, seeing such a Number of Hands on Board these ships, had not the Courage to stand it any longer, but abandoning the Fort, left it to the mercy of the pirates.</p>
			<p>They took Possession of it, and continued there near seven Weeks, in which time they all cleaned their ships. We should have observed, that a Galley came into the Road while they were there, which Davis insisted should be yielded to La Bouse, according to his Word of Honour before given; Cocklyn did not oppose it, so La Bouse went into her, with his Crew, and cutting away her half Deck, mounted her with twenty four Guns.</p>
			<p>Having called a Counsel of War, they agreed to sail down the Coast together, and for the greater Grandeur, appointed a Commadore, which was Davis; but they had not kept Company long, when drinking together on Board of Davis, they had like to have fallen together by the Ears, the strong Liquor stirring up a Spirit of Discord among them, and they quarrelled, but Davis put an End to it, by this short Speech:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:speech">
				<p>Heark ye, you Cocklin and La Bouse, I find by strengthening you, I have put a Rod into your Hands to whip my self, but I’m still able to deal with you both; but since we met in Love, let us part in Love, for I find, that three of a Trade can never agree.⁠</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">Upon which the other two went on board their respective ships, and immediately parted, each steering a different course.</p>
			<p>Davis held on his Way down the Coast, and making Cape Appollonia, he met with two Scotch and one English Vessel, which he plundered, and then let go. About five Days after he fell in with a Dutch Interloper of thirty Guns and ninety Men, (half being English,) off Cape Three Points Bay; Davis coming up along sideof her, the Dutch Man gave the first Fire, and pouring in a broadside upon Davis, killed nine of his Men, Davis returned it, and a very hot Engagement followed, which lasted from one a Clock at Noon, till nine next Morning, when the Dutch Man struck, and yielded her self their prize.</p>
			<p>Davis fitted up the Dutch Ship for his own Use, and called her the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Rover</i>, aboard of which he mounted thirty two Guns, and twenty seven Swivels, and proceeded with her and the King James, to Anamaboe; he entered the Bay betwixt the Hours of twelve and one at Noon, and found there three ships lying at Anchor, who were trading for negroes, Gold and Teeth: the Names of these ships were the Hink Pink, Captain Hall Commander, the Princess, Captain Plumb, of which Roberts, who will make a considerable Figure in the sequel of this History, was second Mate, and the Morrice Sloop, Captain Fin; he takes these ships without any Resistance, and having plundered them, he makes a Present of one of them, <abbr>viz.</abbr> the Morrice Sloop, to the Dutch Men, on Board of which alone were found a hundred and forty negroes, besides dry Goods, and a considerable Quantity of Gold-Dust.</p>
			<p>It happened there were several Canoes along sideof this last, when Davis came in, who saved themselves and got ashore; these gave Notice at the Fort, that these ships were pirates, upon which the Fort fired upon them, but without any Execution, for their Mettle was not of Weight enough to reach them; Davis therefore, by Way of Defiance, hoisted his black flag and returned their compliment.</p>
			<p>The same Day he sail’d with his three ships, making his Way down the Coast towards Princes, a Portuguese Colony: But, before we proceed any farther in Davis’s Story, we shall give our Reader an Account of the Portuguese Settlements on this Coast, with other curious Remarks, as they were communicated to me by an ingenious Gentleman, lately arrived from those parts.</p>
			<article id="islands" epub:type="z3998:essay">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Description of the Islands of <abbr>St.</abbr> Thome, del Principe, and Annobono</h3>
				<p>As the Portuguese were the great Improvers of Navigation, and the first Europeans who traded too and settled on the Coasts of Africa, even round to India, and made those Discoveries, which now turn so much to the Advantage of other Nations, it may not be amiss, previously to a Description of those Islands, to hint on that wonderful Property of the Loadstone, that a little before had been found out, and enabled them to pursue such new and daring navigations.</p>
				<p>The attractive Power of the Loadstone, was universally known with the Ancients, as may be believed by its being a native Fossil of the Grecians, (<i xml:lang="la">Magnes a Magnesia</i>) but its directive, or polar Virtue, has only been known to us within this 350 Years, and said to be found out by John Goia of Malphi, in the Kingdom of Naples, <i xml:lang="la">Prima dedit nautis usum magnetis Amalphi</i>; tho’ others think, and assure us, it was transported by Paulus Venetus from China to Italy, like the other famous Arts of modern Use with us, <em>printing</em> and the Use of <em>guns</em>.</p>
				<p>The other Properties of Improvements of the Magnet, <abbr>viz.</abbr> Variation, or its Defluction from an exact <abbr>N.</abbr> or <abbr>S.</abbr> Line, Variation of that Variation, and its Inclination, were the Inventions of Sebastian Cabot, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Gellibrand, and <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Norman; the Inclination of the Needle, or that Property whereby it keeps an Elevation above the Horizon, in all Places but under the Equator, (where its Parallel) is as surprising a Phænomenon as any, and was the Discovery of our Countrymen; and could it be found regular, I imagine would very much help towards the Discovery of Longitude, at least would point out better Methods than hitherto known, when ships drew nigh Land, which would answer as useful an end.</p>
				<p>Before the Verticity and Use of the Compass, the Portuguese Navigations had extended no farther than Cape Non, (it was their ne plus ultra,) and therefore so called; distress of Weather, indeed, had drove some Coasters to Porto Santo, and Madera, before any certain Method of steering was invented; but after the Needle was seen thus inspired, Navigation every Year improved under the great Incouragements of Henry, Alphonsus, and John <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>. Kings of Portugal, in Part of the 14th and in the 15th century.</p>
				<p>King Alphonsus was not so much at leasure as his Predecessor, to pursue these Discoveries, but having seen the Advantages accrued to Portugal by them, and that the Pope had confirmed the perpetual Donation of all they should discover between Cape Bajadore and India, inclusively, he resolved not to neglect the proper Assistance, and farmed the Profits that did or might ensue to one Bernard Gomez, a Citizen of Lisbon, who was every Voyage obliged to discover 100 Leagues, still farther on: and about the Year 1470 made these Islands, the only Places (of all the considerable and large Colonies they had in Africa,) that do now remain to that Crown.</p>
				<p><abbr>St.</abbr> Thome is the principal of the three, whose Governour is stiled Captain General of the Islands, and from whom the other at Princes receives his Commission, tho’ nominated by the Court of Portugal: it is a Bishoprick with a great many secular Clergy who appear to have neither Learning nor Devotion, as may be judged by several of them being negroes: one of the Chief of them, invited us to hear Mass, as a Diversion to pass time away, where he, and his inferior Brethren acted such affected Gestures and Strains of Voice, as showed to their Dishonour, they had no other Aim than pleasing us; and what I think was still worse, it was not without a View of Interest; for as these Clergy are the chief Traders, they stoop to pitiful and scandalous Methods for ingratiating themselves: they and the Government, on this trading Account, maintain as great Harmony, being ever jealous of each other, and practising little deceitful Arts to monopolize what Strangers have to offer for sale, whether Toys or Clothes, which of all Sorts are ever Commodious with the Portuguese, in all Parts of the World; an ordinary Suit of Black will sell for seven or eight Pound; a Turnstile Wig of four Shillings, for a Moidore; a Watch of forty Shillings, for six Pound, <abbr>etc.</abbr></p>
				<p>The Town is of mean Building, but large and populous, the Residence of the greater Part of the Natives, who, thro’ the whole Island, are computed at 10000, the Militia at 3000, and are in general, a rascally thievish Generation, as an old grave friend of mine can Witness; for he having carried a Bag of second hand Clothes on shore, to truck for provisions, seated himself on the Sand for that Purpose, presently gathered a Crowd round him, to view them; one of which desired to know the Price of a black Suit, that unluckily lay uppermost, and was the best of them, agreeing to the Demand, with little Hesitation, provided it would but fit him; he put them on immediately, in as much hurry as possible, without any co-licentia Seignor; and when my friend was about to commend the Goodness of the Suit, and Exactness they set with, not dreaming of the Impudence of running away from a Crowd, the Rascal took to his Heels, my friend followed and bawled very much, and tho’ there was 500 People about the Place, it served to no other End but making him a clear Stage, that the best Pair of Heels might carry it; so he lost the Suit of Clothes, and before he could return to his Bag, others of them had beat off his Servant, and shared the rest.</p>
				<p>Most of the ships from Guiney, of their own Nation, and frequently those of ours, call at one or other of these Islands, to recruit with fresh provisions, and take in Water, which on the Coast are not so good, nor so conveniently to come by: their own ships likewise, when they touch here, are obliged to leave the King his Custom for their Slaves, which is always in Gold, at so much a Head, without any Deduction at Brasil, for the Mortality that may happen afterwards; this by being a constant Bank to pay off the civil and military Charges of the Government, prevents the Inconveniency of Remittances, and keeps both it and Princes Isle rich enough to pay ready money for every thing they want of Europeans.</p>
				<p>Their Beefs are small and lean, (two hundred Weight or a little more,) but the Goats, Hogs and Fowls very good, their Sugar course and dirty, and Rum very ordinary; as these Refreshments lay most with People who are in want of other Necessaries, they come to us in Way of bartering, very cheap: A good Hog for an old Cutlash; a fat Fowl for a Span of Brasil Tobacco, (no other Sort being valued, <abbr>etc.</abbr>) But with money you give eight Dollars per Head for Cattle; three Dollars for a Goat; six Dollars for a grown Hog; a Testune and a Half for a Fowl; a Dollar per Gallon for Rum; two Dollars a Roove for Sugar; and half a Dollar for a Dozen of Paraquets: here is Plenty likewise of Corn and Farine, of Limes, citrons and yamms.</p>
				<p>The Island is reckoned nigh a Square, each side18 Leagues long, hilly, and lays under the Æquinoctial, a wooden Bridge just without the Town, being said not to deviate the least Part of a Minute, either to the Southward or Northward; and notwithstanding this warm Scituation, and continual vertical Suns, the Islanders are very healthy, imputed by those who are disposed to be merry, in a great measure to the want of even so much as one surgeon or physician amongst them.</p>
				<p>Isle Del Principe, the next in Magnitude, a pleasant and delightful Spot to the grave, and thoughtfull Disposition of the Portuguese, an Improvement of Country Retirement, in that, this may be a happy and uninterrupted Retreat from the whole World.</p>
				<p>I shall divide what I have to say on this Island, into Observations made on our Approach to it, on the Seas round it, the Harbour, Produce of the Island and Seasons, Way of Living among the Inhabitants, some Custom of the negroes, with such proper Deductions on each as may illustrate the Description, and inform the reader.</p>
				<p>We were bound hither from Whydah, at the latter Part of the Month July, when the Rains are over, and the Winds hang altogether <abbr>S. W.</abbr> (as they do before the Rains, <abbr>S. E.</abbr>) yet with this Wind (when at Sea) we found the ship gained unexpectedly so far to the Southward, (<abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr> Windward,) that we could with ease have weathered any of the Islands, and this seems next to impossible should be, if the Currents, which were strong to Leeward, in the Road of Whydah, had extended in like Manner cross the Bite of Benin: No, it must then have been very difficult to have weathered even Cape Formosa: on this Occasion, I shall farther expatiate upon the Currents on the whole Coast of Guiney.</p>
				<p>The southern Coast of Africa runs in a Line of Latitude, the Northern on an Eastern Line, but both strait, with the fewest Inlets, Gulfs or Bays, of either of the four Continents; the only large and remarkable one, is that of Benin and Calabar, towards which the Currents of each Coast tend, and is strongest from the Southward, because more open to a larger Sea, whose rising it is (tho’ little and indiscernable at any Distance from the Land,) that gives rise to these Currents close in shore, which are nothing but tides altered and disturbed by the make and shape of lands.</p>
				<p>For Proof of this, I shall lay down the following observations as certain Facts. That in the Rivers of Gambia and Sierraleon, in the Straits and Channels of Benin, and in general along the whole Coast, the Flowings are regular on the shores, with this Difference; that, in the abovemention’d Rivers, and in the Channels of Benin, where the shore contract the Waters into a narrow Compass, the Tides are strong and high, as well as regular; but on the dead Coast, where it makes an equal Reverberation, slow and low, (not to above two or three Foot,) increasing as you advance towards Benin; and this is farther evident in that at Cape Corso, Succonda and Commenda, and where the Land rounds and gives any Stop, the Tides flow regularly to four Foot and upwards; when on an evener Coast, (tho’ next adjoining,) they shall not exceed two or three Foot; and ten Leagues out at Sea, (where no such Interruption is,) they become scarcely, if at all, perceptible.</p>
				<p>What I would deduce from this, besides a confirmation of that ingenious Theory of the Tides, by Captain Halley; is first, that the ships bound to Angola, Cabenda, and other Places on the Southern Coast of Africa, should cross the Æquinoctial from Cape Palmas, and run into a Southern Latitude, without keeping too far to the Westward; and the Reason seems plain, for if you endeavour to cross it about the Islands, you meet Calms, southerly Winds and opposite Currents; and if too far to the Westward, the trade Winds are strong and unfavourable; for it obliges you to stand into 28 or 30° Southern Latitude, till they are variable.</p>
				<p>Secondly, On the Northern sideof Guiney, if ships are bound from the Gold-Coast to Sierraleon, Gambia, or elsewhere to Windward, considering the Weakness of these Currents, and the Favourableness of Land Breezes, and Southerly in the Rains, Turnadoes, and even of the Trade Wind, when abreast of Cape Palmas, it is more expeditious to pursue the Passage this Way, than by a long perambulatory Course of 4 or 500 Leagues to the Westward, and as many more to the Northward, which must be before a Wind can be obtained, that could recover the coast.</p>
				<p>Lastly, it is, in a great Measure, owning to this want of Inlets, and the Rivers being small and unnavigable, that the Seas rebound with so dangerous a Surff thro’ the whole continent.</p>
				<p>Round the shores of this Island, and at this Season, (July, August and September,) there is a great Resort of Whale-Fish, tame, and sporting very nigh the ships as they sail in, always in Pairs, the Female much the smaller, and often seen to turn on their Backs for Dalliance, the Prologue to engendring: it has an Enemy, called the Thresher, a large Fish too, that has its Haunts here at this Season, and encounters the Whale, raising himself out of the Water a considerable Heighth, and falling again with great Weight and Force; it is commonly said also, that there is a Sword Fish in these Battles, who pricks the Whale up to the Surface again, but without this, I believe, he would suffocate when put to quick Motions, unless frequently approaching the Air, to ventilate and remove the impediments to a swifter Circulation: nor do I think he is battled for Prey, but to remove him from what is perhaps the Food of both. The Number of Whales here has put me sometimes on thinking an advantageous Fishery might be made of it, but I presume they (no more than those of Brasil) are the Sort which yield the profitable Part, called Whalebone: all therefore that the Islanders do, is now and then to go out with two or three Canoes, and set on one for diversion.</p>
				<p>The rocks and outer lines of the Island, are the Haunts of variety of Seabirds, especially Boobies and Noddies; the former are of the Bigness of a Gull, and a dark Colour, named so from their Simplicity, because they often sit still and let the Sailors take them up in their Hands; but I fancy this succeeds more frequently from their Weariness, and the Largeness of their Wings, which, when they once have rested, cannot have the Scope necessary to raise and float them on the Air again. The noddies are smaller and flat footed also.</p>
				<p>What I would remark more of them, is, the admirable Instinct in these Birds, for the proper Seasons, and the proper Places for Support. In the aforemention’d Months, when the large Fish were here, numerous Flocks of Fowl attend for the Spawn and Superfluity of their Nourishment; and in January few of either; for the same Reason, there are scarce any Sea Fowl seen on the African Coast; Rocks and Islands being generally their best security and subsistance.</p>
				<p>The Harbour of Princes is at the <abbr>E. S. E.</abbr> Point of the Island; the North-Side has gradual Soundings, but here deep Water, having no Ground at a Mile off with 140 Fathom of Line. The Port (when in) is a smooth narrow Bay, safe from Winds, (unless a little Swell when Southerly) and draughted into other smaller and sandy Ones, convenient for raising of Tents, Watering, and hawling the Seam; the whole protected by a Fort, or rather Battery, of a dozen Guns on the Larboard-Side. At the Head of the Bay stands the Town, about a Mile from the anchoring Place, and consists of two or three regular Streets, of wooden built Houses, where the Governor and chief Men of the Island reside. Here the Water grows shallow for a considerable Distance, and the Natives, at every Ebb, (having before encompassed every convenient Angle with a Rise of Stones, something like Weirs in England) resort for catching of Fish, which, with them, is a daily Diversion, as well as Subsistance, 500 attending with Sticks and wicker Baskets; and if they cannot dip them with one Hand, they knock them down with the other. The Tides rise regularly 6 Foot in the Harbour, and yet not half that heighth without the capes that make the bay.</p>
				<p>Here are constantly two missionaries, who are sent for six Years to inculcate the Christian principles, and more especially attend the Conversion of the negroes; the present are Venetians, ingenious Men, who seem to despise the loose Morals and Behaviour of the Seculars, and complain of them as of the Slaves, ut Color Mores sunt nigri. They have a neat Conventual-House and a Garden appropriated, which, by their own Industry and Labour, not only thrives with the several Natives of the Soil, but many Exoticks and Curiosities. A Fruit in particular, larger than a Chesnut, yellow, containing two Stones, with a Pulp, or clammy Substance about them, which, when suck’d, exceeds in Sweetness, Sugar or Honey, and has this Property beyond them, of giving a sweet Taste to every Liquid you swallow for the whole Evening after. The only Plague infesting the Garden, is a Vermin called Land-Crabs, in vast Numbers, of a bright red Colour, (in other Respects like the Sea ones) which burrough in these sandy Soils like Rabbets, and are as shy.</p>
				<p>The island is a pleasant intermixture of Hill and Valley; the Hills spread with Palms, Coconuts, and Cotton-Trees, with numbers of monkeys and Parrots among them; the Valleys with fruitful Plantations of Yamms, Kulalu, Papas, Variety of Sallating, Ananas, or Pineapples, Guavas, Plantanes, Bonanas, Manyocos, and Indian Corn; with Fowls, Guinea Hens, Muscovy Ducks, Goats, Hogs, Turkies, and wild Beefs, with each a little Village of negroes, who, under the Direction of their several Masters, manage the Cultivation, and exchange or sell them for money, much after the same Rates with the People of <abbr>St.</abbr> Thome.</p>
				<p>I shall run a description of the vegetables, with their properties, not only because they are the produce of this Island, but most of them of Africa in general.</p>
				<p>The palm-trees are numerous on the shores of Africa, and may be reckoned the first of their natural curiosities, in that they afford them Meat, Drink and Clothing; they grow very straight to 40 and 50 Foot high, and at the top (only) have 3 or 4 Circles of Branches, that spread and make a capacious Umbrella. The Trunk is very rough with Knobs, either Excrescencies, or the healings of those branches that were lopped off to forward the growth of the Tree, and make it answer better in its Fruit. The Branches are strongly tied together with a Cortex, which may be unravelled to a considerable Length and Breadth; the inward Lamella of this Cortex, I know are wove like a Clothe at Benin, and afterwards died and worn: under the Branches, and close to the Body of the Tree, hang the Nuts, thirty Bunches perhaps on a Tree, and each of thirty Pound Weight, with prickly Films from between them, not unresembling Hedgehogs; of these Nuts comes a liquid and pleasant scented Oyl, used as Food and Sauce all over the Coast, but chiefly in the Windward Parts of Africa, where they stamp, boil and skim it off in great Quantities; underneath, where the Branches fasten, they tap for Wine, called Cockra, in this Manner; the negroes who are mostly limber active fellows, encompass themselves and the Trees with a Hoop of strong With, and run up with a great deal of Agility; at the Bottom of a Branch of Nuts, he makes an Excavation of an Inch and a half over, and tying fast his Calabash, leaves it to destil, which it does to two or three Quarts in a Night’s time, when done he plugs it up, and chooses another; for if suffered to run too much, or in the Day time, the Sap is unwarily exhausted, and the Tree spoiled: the Liquor thus drawn, is of a wheyish Colour, intoxicating and sours in 24 Hours, but when new drawn, is pleasantest to thirst and hunger both: it is from these Wines they draw their Arack in India. On the very Top of the Palm, grows a Cabbage, called so, I believe, from some resemblance its Tast is thought to have with ours, and is used like it; the Covering has a Down that makes the best of Tinder, and the weavings of other parts are drawn out into strong threads.</p>
				<p>Coconut-Trees are branch’d like, but not so tall as, Palm Trees, the Nut like them, growing under the Branches, and close to the Trunk; the milky Liquor they contain, (to half a Pint or more,) is often drank to quench Thirst, but surfeiting, and this may be observed in their Way of Nourishment, that when the Quantity of Milk is large, the Shell and Meat are very thin, and harden and thicken in Proportion, as that loses.</p>
				<p>Cotton trees also are the Growth of all parts of Africk, as well as the Islands, of vast Bigness, yet not so incremental as the Shrubs or Bushes of five or six Foot high; these bear a Fruit (if it may be so called) about the Bigness of Pigeons Eggs, which as the Sun swells and ripens, bursts forth and discovers three cells loaded with Cotton, and seeds in the middle of them: this in most Parts the negroes know how to spin, and here at Nicongo and the Island <abbr>St.</abbr> Jago, how to weave into cloths.</p>
				<p>Yamms are a common root, sweeter but not unlike potato’s: kulalu, a herb like spinnage: papa, a fruit less than the smallest pumkins; they are all three for boiling, and to be eat with Meat; the latter are improved by the English into a Turnip or an Apple Tast, with a due Mixture of Butter or Limes.</p>
				<p>Guava’s, a Fruit as large as a Pipin, with Seeds and Stones in it, of an uncouth astringing Tast, tho’ never so much be said in commendation of it, at the West-Indies, it is common for Cræolians, (who has tasted both,) to give it a Preference to Peach or Nectarine, no amazing thing when Men whose Tasts are so degenerated, as to prefer a Toad in a Shell, (as Ward calls Turtle,) to Venison, and negroes to fine English ladies.</p>
				<p>Plantanes and Bonano’s are fruit of oblong figure, that i think differ only secundum Major &amp; Minus, if any, the latter are preferable, and by being less, are juicier; they are usually, when stripped of their Coat, eat at Meals instead of Bread: the Leaf of this Plantane is an admirable Detergent, and, externally applied, I have seen cure the most obstinate scorbutick ulcers.</p>
				<p>Manyoco. A Root that shoots its branches about the heighth of a currant bush; from this root the islanders make a farine or flower, which they sell at three Ryals a Roove, and drive a considerable Trade for it with the ships that call in. The manner of making it, is first to press the Juice from it, (which is poisonous) done here with Engines, and then the negroe Women, upon a rough Stone, rub it into a granulated Flower, reserved in their Houses, either to boil, as we do our Wheat, and is a hearty Food for the Slaves; or make it into a Bread, fine, white, and well tasted, for themselves. One thing worth taking Notice about Manyoco in this Island, is, that the Woods abound with a wild poisonous and more mortiferous Sort, which sometimes Men, unskilled in the Preparation of it, feed on to their Destruction: this the Missionaries assured me they often experimented in their Hogs, and believed we did in the mortality of our sailors.</p>
				<p>Indian corn, is likewise as well as the farine de manyoco and rice, the common victualling of our slave ships, and is afforded here at 1000 heads for two dollars. This Corn grows eight or nine Foot high, on a hard Reed or Stick, shooting forth at every six Inches Heighth, some long Leaves; it has always an Ear, or rather Head, at top, of, perhaps, 400 Fold Increase; and often two, three, or more, midway.</p>
				<p>Here are some tamarind trees; another called cola, whose fruit, or nut (about twice the bigness of a chestnut, and bitter) is chewed by the portugueze, to give a sweet gust to their water which they drink; but above all, i was shown the bark of one (whose name i do not know) gravely affirm’d to have a peculiar property of enlarging the virile member; I am not fond of such conceits, nor believe it in the power of any vegetables, but must acknowledge, i have seen sights of this kind among the negroes very extraordinary; yet, that there may be no wishes among the ladies for the importation of this bark, i must acquaint them, that they are found to grow less merry, as they encrease in bulk. I had like to have forgot their Cinnamon Trees; there is only one Walk of them, and is the Entrance of the Governor’s Villa; they thrive extreemly well, and the Bark not inferior to our Cinnamon from India; why they and other Spice, in a Soil so proper, receive no farther Cultivation, is, probably, their Suspicion, that so rich a Produce, might make some potent neighbour take a fancy to the island.</p>
				<p>They have two winters, or rather springs, and two summers: their winters, which are the rainy seasons, come in September and February, or March, and hold two Months, returning that Fatness and generative Power to the Earth, as makes it yield a double Crop every Year, with little Sweat or labour.</p>
				<blockquote>
					<p>
						<i xml:lang="la">Hic Ver Assiduum atque Alienis Mensibus Æstas⁠—Bis gravidæ Pecudes, bis Pomis utilis arbos.</i>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
				<p>Their first coming is with Travado’s, <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr> sudden and hard Gusts of Wind, with Thunder, Lightning and heavy Showers, but short; and the next new or full Moon at those times of the Year, infallibly introduces the Rains, which once begun, fall with little Intermission, and are observed coldest in February. Similar to these are rainy seasons also over all the coast of africa: if there may be allowed any general way of calculating their time, they happen from the course of the Sun, as it respects the Æquinoctial only; for if these Æquinoxes prove rainy Seasons all over the World (as I am apt to think they are) whatever secret Cause operates with that Station of the Sun to produce them, will more effectually do it in those vicine Latitudes; and therefore, as the Sun advances, the Rains are brought on the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Whydah</i> and Gold Coast, by April, and on the Windwardmost Part of Guiney by May: the other Season of the Sun’s returning to the Southward, make them more uncertain and irregular in Northern Africa; but then to the Southward again, they proceed in like manner, and are at Cape Lopez in October, at Angola in November, <abbr>etc.</abbr></p>
				<p>The manner of living among the Portugueze here is, with the utmost Frugality and Temperance, even to Penury and Starving; a familiar Instance of Proof is, in the Voracity of their Dogs, who finding such clean Cupboards at home, are wild in a manner with Hunger, and tare up the Graves of the Dead for Food, as I have often seen: they themselves are lean with Covetousness, and that Christian Vertue, which is often the Result of it, Selfdenyal; and would train up their Cattle in the same way, could they fetch as much money, or had not they their provision more immediately of Providence. The best of them (excepting the Governor now and then) neither pay nor receive any Visits of Escapade or Recreation; they meet and sit down at each others Doors in the Street every Evening, and as few of them, in so small an Island, can have their Plantations at any greater Distance, than that they may see it every Day if they will, so the Subject of their Talk is mostly how Affairs went there, with their negroes, or their Ground, and then part with one another innocently, but empty.</p>
				<p>The negroes have yet no hard duty with them, they are&gt; rather happy in slavery; for as their food is chiefly vegetables, that could no way else be expended, there is no Murmurs bred on that account; and as their Business is Domestick, either in the Services of the House, or in Gardening, Sowing, or Planting, they have no more than what every Man would prefer for Health and Pleasure; the hardest of their Work is the Carriage of their Pateroons, or their wives, to and from the Plantations; this they do in Hammocks (call’d at Whydah, Serpentines) slung cross a Pole, with a Clothe over, to screen the Person, so carried, from Sun and Weather, and the Slaves are at each End; and yet even this, methinks, is better than the specious liberty a man has for himself and his heirs to work in a coal mine.</p>
				<p>The negroes are, most of them, thro’ the Care of their Patroons, Christians, at least nominal, but excepting to some few, they adhere still to many silly Pagan Customs in their Mournings and Rejoycings, and in some Measure, powerful Majority has introduced them with the Vulgar of the Mulatto and Portugueze Race.</p>
				<p>If a person die in that Colour, the relations and friends of him meet at the house, where the corpse is laid out decently on the Ground and covered (all except the Face) with a Sheet; they sit round it, crying and howling dreadfully, not unlike what our Countrymen are said to do in Ireland: this Mourning lasts for eight Days and Nights, but not equally intense, for as the friends, who compose the Chorus, go out and in, are weary, and unequally affected, the Tone lessens daily, and the intervals of grief are longer.</p>
				<p>In rejoycings and festivals they are equally ridiculous; these are commonly made on some friend’s escape from shipwreck, or other danger: they meet in a large room of the House, with a Strum Strum, to which one of the Company, perhaps, sings woefully; the rest standing round the Room close to the Petitions, take it in their turns (one or two at a time) to step round, called Dancing, the whole clapping their Hands continually, and hooping out every Minute Abeo, which signify no more, than, how do you. And this foolish Mirth will continue three or four Days together at a House, and perhaps twelve or sixteen hours at a time.</p>
				<p>The Portugueze, tho’ eminently abstemious and temperate in all other things, are unbounded in their Lusts; and perhaps they substitute the former in room of a Surgeon, as a Counterpoison to the mischiefs of a promiscuous Salacity: they have most of them Venereal Taints, and with Age become meager and hectick: I saw two instances here of venereal Ulcers that had cancerated to the Bowels, Spectacles that would have effectually perswaded Men (I think) how Salutary the Restriction of Laws are.</p>
				<p>Annobono is the last, and of the least consequence of the three islands; there are plenty of fruits and provisions, exchanged to ships for old clothes and trifles of any Sort; they have a Governor nominated from <abbr>St.</abbr> Thome, and two or three Priests, neither of which are minded, everyone living at Discretion, and fill’d with ignorance and lust.</p>
			</article>
			<hr/>
			<p>To return to Davis, the next day after he left Anamaboe, early in the morning, the man at the masthead espied a sail. It must be observed, they keep a good Lookout; for, according to their Articles, he who first espies a Sail, if she proves a Prize, is entitled to the best pair of pistols on Board, over and above his Dividend, in which they take a singular Pride; and a pair of pistols has sometimes been sold for thirty Pounds, from one to another.</p>
			<p>Immediately they gave chace, and soon came up with her; the ship proved to be a Hollander, and being betwixt Davis and the shore, she made all the Sail she could, intending to run aground; Davis guessed her Design, and putting out all his small Sails, came up with her before she could effect it, and fired a Broadside, upon which she immediately struck, and called for Quarter. It was granted, for according to Davis’s Articles, it was agreed, that Quarter should be given whenever it was called for, upon Pain of Death. This ship proved a very rich Prize, having the Governor of Acra on Board, with all his Effects, going to Holland; there was in money to the Value of 15000 £ Sterling, besides other valuable Merchandizes, all which they brought on board of themselves.</p>
			<p>Upon this new success, they restored Captain Hall and Captain Plumb, beforementioned, their ships again, but strengthened their company with thirty five Hands, all white Men, taken out of these two and the Morrice Sloop; they also restored the Dutch their ship, after having plunder’d her, as is mentioned.</p>
			<p>Before they got to the Island of Princes, one of their ships, <abbr>viz.</abbr> that call’d the King James, sprung a leak; Davis order’d all Hands out of her, on Board his own ship, with everything else of Use, and left her at an anchor at high Cameroon. As soon as he came in Sight of the Island, he hoisted English Colours; the Portuguese observing a large ship sailing towards them, sent out a little sloop to examine what she might be; this sloop hailing of Davis, he told them he was an English Man of War, in Quest of pirates, and that he had received Intelligence there were some upon that Coast; upon this they received him as a welcome Guest, and piloted him into the Harbour. He saluted the Fort, which they answered, and he came to an Anchor just under their Guns, and hoisted out the Pinnace, Man of War Fashion, ordering nine Hands and a Coxen in it, to row him ashore.</p>
			<p>The Portugueze, to do him the greater Honour, sent down a file of musqueteers to receive him, and conduct him to the Governor. The Governor not in the least suspecting what he was, received him very civilly, promising to supply him with whatever the island afforded; Davis thanked him, telling him, the King of England would pay for whatever he should take; so after several civilities pass’d between him and the Governor, he returned again on Board.</p>
			<p>It happened a French ship came in there to supply it self with some necessaries, which Davis took into his Head to plunder, but to give the thing a colour of Right, he persuaded the Portugueze, that she had been trading with the pirates, and that he found several pirates Goods on Board, which he seized for the King’s Use: this Story passed so well upon the Governor, that he commended Davis’s diligence.</p>
			<p>A few Days after, Davis, with about fourteen more, went privately ashore, and walk’d up the Country towards a Village, where the Governor and the other chief men of the Island kept their wives, in tending, as we may suppose, to supply their Husbands Places with them; but being discovered, the women fled to a neighbouring Wood, and Davis and the rest retreated to their ship, without effecting their Design: the thing made some Noise, but as no body knew them, it passed over.</p>
			<p>Having cleaned his ship, and put all things in Order, his Thoughts now were turned upon the main Business, <abbr>viz.</abbr> the plunder of the island, and not knowing where the Treasure lay, a Stratagem came into his Head, to get it (as he thought) with little Trouble, he consulted his men upon it, and they liked the Design: his scheme was, to make a present to the Governor, of a dozen negroes, by way of return for the civilities received from him, and afterwards to invite him, with the chief Men, and some of the Friers, on Board his ship, to an Entertainment; the Minute they came on Board, they were to be secured in Irons, and there kept till they should pay a Ransom of 40000 £ Sterling.</p>
			<p>But this stratagem proved fatal to him, for a Portugueze negroe swam ashore in the Night, and discovered the whole Plot to the Governor, and also let him know, that it was Davis who had made the Attempt upon their wives. However, the Governor dissembled, received the pirates invitation civilly, and promised that he and the rest would go.</p>
			<p>The next day Davis went on shore himself, as if it were out of greater respect to bring the Governor on board: he was received with the usual civility, and he, and other principal pirates, who, by the Way, had assumed the Title of Lords, and as such took upon them to advise or councel their Captain upon any important Occasion; and likewise held certain Priviledges, which the common pirates were debarr’d from, as walking the Quarterdeck, using the great Cabin, going ashore at Pleasure, and treating with foreign Powers, that is, with the Captains of ships they made Prize of; I say, Davis and some of the Lords were desired to walk up to the Governor’s House, to take some Refreshment before they went on Board; they accepted it without the least Suspicion, but never returned again; for an Ambuscade was laid, a Signal being given, a whole Volley was fired upon them; they every Man dropp’d, except one, this one fled back, and escaped into the boat, and got on Board the ship: Davis was shot through the Bowels, yet he rise again, and made a weak Effort to get away, but his Strength soon forsook him, and he dropp’d down dead; just as he fell, he perceived he was followed, and drawing out his Pistols, fired them at his Pursuers; Thus like a game Cock, giving a dying Blow, that he might not fall unrevenged.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
